2017 Sustainability Report Highlights
Table of contents

Chairman's letter

3

ExxonMobil and sustainability

4

External Sustainability Advisory Panel statement

6

Addressing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals

8

Corporate governance

9

Safety, health and the workplace

12

Managing the risks of climate change

16

Environmental performance

20

Community engagement and human rights

23

Local development and supply chain management

26

Case study: ExxonMobil's response to Hurricane Harvey

29

About the Sustainability Report Highlights

30

Performance data table

31

Note: Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, those terms and terms such as corporation, company, our, we and its are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the principal exchange on which Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded. The term "resource base" as used in this publication is not intended to correspond to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) definitions such as "probable" or "possible" reserves. That term includes quantities of oil and gas that are not yet classified as proved reserves under SEC definitions but that are expected to be moved into the proved reserved category and produce in the future. Proved reserve figures are determined in accordance with SEC definitions in effect at the end of each applicable year.
Statements of future events or conditions in this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including future energy supply, demand and mix; the future effectiveness of safety, health, environmental and other sustainability risk and impact management processes; efficiency gains; and the impact of future technologies could differ materially due to factors including changes in supply and demand for oil and gas and other factors affecting long-term oil and gas prices; political and regulatory factors including the impact of international accords and treaties; changes in consumer preferences; actions of competitors including the development of competing technologies; the outcome of current and future research efforts; technical and operating factors; and other factors discussed under the heading Factors Affecting Future Results available through the Investors page of our website.
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

More about this report
Explore our complete 2017 Sustainability Report at exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport Content index exxonmobil.com/contentindex Report archive exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreportarchive
Additional resources
The Outlook for Energy exxonmobil.com/energyoutlook Energy Factor energyfactor.exxonmobil.com Digital Annual Report exxonmobil.com/annualreport Energy and Carbon Summary exxonmobil.com/ecsummary
2
Chairman's letter
I'm pleased to share with you ExxonMobil's 2017 Sustainability Report.
For more than 135 years, ExxonMobil has strived to meet society's evolving needs. We work to meet growing demands for energy and chemical products while advancing other priorities such as economic growth, environmental protection, education, poverty reduction, health, security and human rights.
I'm proud of the role we play in raising living standards. Millions of people have escaped extreme poverty in the last two decades due in part to increased access to energy.
The energy we produce is important. So is the way we produce it.
The men and women of ExxonMobil are focused on meeting society's dual challenge  meeting energy needs while also minimizing the environmental impacts of energy use, including the risks of climate change. It's one of society's largest and most complex challenges and requires thoughtful engagement at all levels, focusing on practical and affordable solutions that work at the necessary scale.
At ExxonMobil, we work extensively to reduce emissions and other environmental impacts of energy use in our operations and through the products we sell. We're also a leader in researching and developing energy technologies, like algae biofuels and carbon capture, utilization and storage, that could potentially play a role in helping mitigate the risks of climate change.
Another key sustainability focus is health. We directly impact this through our commitment to the safety of our

workers and members of communities where we work. We continue to make good progress toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. In 2017, we had the fewest recordable injuries in our company's history. In the communities where we operate, we routinely dialogue with local officials responsible for emergency response, health, safety and environmental protection. Our commitment to communities extends well beyond health and safety. We work to enhance economic development by hiring and training qualified local workers and making local investments. At ExxonMobil we are committed to creating long-term shareholder value by making a positive contribution to society. I hope you find this report helpful in understanding our approach. We welcome your feedback at exxonmobil.com/ sustainabilityreport.
Darren Woods Chairman and CEO

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

3
ExxonMobil and sustainability
ExxonMobil's primary responsibility is to produce the energy and products the world needs in a responsible manner. Our approach to sustainability focuses on six key areas:
 Corporate governance  Safety, health and the workplace  Managing the risks of climate change  Environmental performance  Community engagement and human rights  Local development and supply chain management
For an in-depth analysis of our financial performance and investment decisions, see our 2017 Digital Annual Report. For information on ExxonMobil's view of global energy demand and supply through 2040, visit the Outlook for Energy.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

4
Global operations
Upstream: We are one of the largest producers of oil and gas, with an active oil and gas presence in 38 countries where we explore, develop, produce and market hydrocarbons.

Downstream: We are one of the largest integrated refiners and manufacturers of fuels and lube basestocks, as well as a leading manufacturer of petroleum products and finished lubricants. We have refining and lubricant blending facilities in 25 countries.

ExxonMobil and sustainability
Chemical: ExxonMobil is one of the world's largest chemical companies, and has operations in 16 countries and a unique portfolio of high-performance products.

Crude oil & natural gas

Feedstocks

Production

Refining & Supply

Chemical

Oil  Natural Gas  Natural Gas Liquids
4.0M oil-equivalent barrels of net oil and gas production per day 1 1 Natural gas converted to oil-equivalent barrels using 6 million cubic feet per 1,000 barrels. 2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

Gasoline  Diesel  Fuel Oil  Jet Fuel Lubricants  Asphalt  Chemical Feedstocks
5.5M barrels of petroleum product sales per day 2
2 Sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.

Basic Chemicals  Intermediates  Synthetics Plastics & Resins  Speciality Elastomers & Butyl
25.4M tonnes of chemical prime product sales 2
5
External Sustainability Advisory Panel statement
For the last 10 years, the External Sustainability Advisory Panel has commented on ExxonMobil's sustainability reporting and transparency. In that time, the company has acted on many of our recommendations and we are encouraged by the progress. This year, the company has transitioned from a corporate citizenship report to a sustainability report, which connotes a greater sense of connectedness to global issues and deeper integration with corporate strategy. During our engagement period in 2017-2018, we had the opportunity to observe increased executive engagement in sustainability. Through meetings with the Chairman and CEO, and other senior business leaders in executive, operational and functional roles, we were able to engage the company on transparency, policy and strategy.
This letter represents our individual and collective views on the quality and progress made in ExxonMobil's sustainability reporting and transparency. In recognition of our efforts, ExxonMobil provided a donation on behalf of the panelists to nonprofit organizations of our choice and reimbursed relevant travel expenses. This letter is not an official endorsement of ExxonMobil's sustainability report, the corporation, or its policies and strategies.
For past panel feedback statements, visit: exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

Linking sustainability to corporate strategy
Climate change, sustainable development and human rights are among the most pressing challenges facing society. Companies are responding by aligning their core business strategy around global initiatives that seek to address these trends -- the Paris Agreement, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). We recognize ExxonMobil's progress in responding to these international issues and goals. We hope that the company will take further steps to demonstrate how climate change, the SDGs, human rights and other sustainability-related challenges link directly with corporate investments and programs central to its long-term business strategy. We also recommend that the sustainability report include more information on how the company is aligning its long-term business strategy and sustainability strategy, along with the risks and opportunities created by these issues.
Communicating the urgency of climate change
We commend ExxonMobil for the significant steps the company has taken over the past year to address climate change. Publication of the Energy and Carbon Summary in early 2018 is a crucial step demonstrating the company's progress in managing climate risk and responding to shareholder concerns. Continued investment in emerging energy technology research as well as dedicated efforts to reduce methane emissions are other areas of notable progress, alongside the company's decision to participate in collective action platforms such as the Climate Leadership Council and global Methane Guiding Principles, and its public support for the Paris Agreement. The company's recent announcement of efforts to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions from flaring and methane emissions through quantified reductions

of 25 percent and 15 percent respectively, by 2020, is a significant step forward.
Due to the possible negative impacts climate change poses to business operations, human rights and economic development around the world, we urge further integration of climate change into the core of ExxonMobil's business strategy. This includes through continued operational upgrades and nearand long-term research and product development programs.
Perhaps most important, we encourage ExxonMobil to lead by example and be bold in its interaction with governments, industry, academic institutions and civil society organizations in the development of public policies that reduce the threat of climate change.
Measuring performance and impact
Disclosure of future targets in addition to current performance data is becoming standard practice in corporate sustainability reporting. There is a growing movement where companies are publicly articulating "science-based targets" that align with current climate science. ExxonMobil's report thoroughly discloses current and past performance data. As mentioned, we value the recent announcement of forward-looking greenhouse gas reduction measures and would suggest a similar approach for other material issues. Disclosure of the company's most material and salient internal goals provides opportunity for external stakeholders to independently assess the company's strategy and future performance.
Stronger statements can also be added on the outcomes or impacts arising from the company's programs. Corporate investments and other performance data should be coupled directly with tangible impacts and outcomes that demonstrate ExxonMobil's impact on society. For example, the report discusses the amount of capital invested in developing energy

6
solutions with lower emissions. Emphasis could be added on the actual or potential impact of these investments for society. Describing a specific successful technology that resulted, or could result, from this investment could be more compelling than disclosing financial investment data alone. Incorporating these outcomes creates a more engaging report that demonstrates the types of impacts the company is creating for the environment, people and industry.
With respect to human rights, we recommend that the company be bold in stating its objective of no harm. Through many rigorous due diligence processes, ExxonMobil's approach to human rights, for example, closely aligns with the UNGPs. Greater specificity about practices and performance in this area would help the company align its reporting more effectively with societal and industry expectations of best practices. Measuring the impact on human rights quantitatively is difficult. Nevertheless, the company is already assessing impacts on staff and on communities in its areas of operation. We encourage it to expand efforts through further identification of potential adverse impacts, explaining processes used to identify these, and describing steps taken to mitigate them.
Engaging strategically with stakeholders
Companies like ExxonMobil have to understand and balance the needs of numerous individual and institutional stakeholders across different value chains and a wide range of cultures, regulations and operating environments. Some relationships are indirect and simple, while others are very complex. ExxonMobil's current disclosure around stakeholder engagement is not sufficiently specific, which can create the perception that the company is not fully disclosing engagement activities. We recommend that ExxonMobil describe its stakeholders and their priorities more explicitly, and how the

company has addressed their concerns. We also recommend that ExxonMobil describe limitations encountered with stakeholder interactions in countries where open consultation is difficult.
We appreciate that the company publishes a list of its political contributions and philanthropic giving to non-lobbying and nonprofit organizations. In the future, we would like to see more about the relationship between its contributions and its specific sustainability goals and/or programs.
Concluding remarks
We recognize the progress that ExxonMobil has made over the past year in publicly addressing complex sustainability issues and call on the company to drive this agenda forward, both through business activities and value chains, as well as through strategic partnerships with others. We encourage the company and its executives to be even more bold and transparent in all aspects of sustainability performance. ExxonMobil is a global leader that others follow in many areas of the energy industry. We believe that taking an increasingly ambitious, evidencebased and technologically innovative position on sustainability issues will provide the company with the opportunity to champion more substantial sustainability efforts worldwide, and to enhance long-term shareholder value.
Sincerely,
Craig Benson, Mark Cohen, Frank Loy, Jane Nelson, Salil Tripathi
June 2018

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

External Sustainability Advisory Panel statement
External Sustainability Advisory Panel
ExxonMobil's External Sustainability Advisory Panel is composed of academics, nongovernmental organization representatives and former government employees who have expertise in a variety of environmental, social and governance topics. Craig Benson
Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science University of Virginia
Mark Cohen
Professor of Management and Law Vanderbilt University Owen Graduate School of Management
Frank Loy
Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs U.S. Department of State
Jane Nelson
Director of Corporate Responsibility Initiative Harvard University Kennedy School of Government
Salil Tripathi
Senior Adviser, Global Issues Institute for Human Rights and Business
The External Sustainability Advisory Panel met with Chairman and CEO Darren Woods at ExxonMobil headquarters in Irving, Texas in May 2018. From the left: Frank Loy, Salil Tripathi, Jane Nelson, Darren Woods, Craig Benson and Mark Cohen.
7
Addressing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aim to make significant progress on global economic, social and environmental challenges by 2030. While ExxonMobil contributes to certain aspects of all 17 SDGs, the following eight represent those most relevant to ExxonMobil's sustainability focus areas.
Learn more about how ExxonMobil contributes to the UN SDGs at exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport.
SDG Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere United Nations data shows a strong correlation between energy use and improved standards of living. ExxonMobil is working to help lift people out of poverty around the world by expanding access to affordable and versatile energy supplies. In addition, ExxonMobil collaborates with host governments and other local stakeholders to implement community investments that improve health and education, and help build and sustain local economic growth.
SDG Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages ExxonMobil supports the health, safety and well-being of our employees while also making investments to support community health systems and programs. For example,

since 2001, we have funded antimalarial programs that have reached more than 125 million people. Another example is our U.S.-based Culture of Health program that provides health education, nutrition and fitness programs that support the well-being of our employees. We are expanding the program to other countries as well.
SDG Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all
We invest in education and teacher development programs, placing a specific emphasis on encouraging students to pursue careers in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields. Since 2000, we have contributed more than $1.25 billion to education programs around the world.
SDG Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
Since 2005, ExxonMobil has invested $111 million in programs that develop female entrepreneurs and business leaders and improve women's ability to advance. Internally, ExxonMobil promotes leadership development for women during all aspects of their careers, including through training and mentoring.
SDG Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
ExxonMobil delivers reliable and affordable energy that helps fuel economic activity and improve standards of living. Natural gas, for example, supplies 22 percent of the world's energy and has a lower carbon footprint than other traditional energy sources. In addition, ExxonMobil is researching loweremission technologies, such as algae biofuels and advanced carbon capture. We have invested more than $9 billion since 2000 on lower-emission energy solutions.

SDG Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all
When working in a community, we add economic and social value by creating local jobs, supporting local supplier development and providing opportunities through training and investments. We employ nearly 70,000 people around the world.
SDG Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
ExxonMobil is working to make our operations more efficient while also helping our customers to reduce their emissions. These solutions include creating advanced plastics and other materials that can be used in a range of consumer products to reduce weight and improve fuel efficiency, and by developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants.
SDG Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
Meeting the world's growing energy demand while simultaneously reducing environmental impacts, including the risks of climate change, is one of society's most pressing challenges. We are focused on mitigating emissions in our operations, developing technology solutions, providing solutions that reduce emissions for our customers and engaging on climate change policy. We are a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council, which advocates for a revenue-neutral carbon tax and aligns closely with our long-standing principles. In 2018, we joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a voluntary initiative representing 13 of the world's largest oil and gas producers working towards solutions to mitigate the risks of climate change.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

8
Corporate governance

ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to high ethical standards. Good corporate governance creates a business environment conducive to long-term growth. All our directors are required to stand for election each year at our annual meeting of shareholders. Independent directors also chair key board committees -- audit, compensation, board affairs and public issues and contributions -- that consist entirely of independent directors.

Above: The ExxonMobil board of directors. Top row from the left: Michael Boskin, Angela Braly, Steven Kandarian, Samuel Palmisano, Darren Woods, Kenneth Frazier, Douglas Oberhelman and Ursula Burns. Bottom row from the left: Steven Reinemund, Susan Avery and William Weldon.
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

"ExxonMobil's board of directors provides a key oversight role, including review of risk management efforts and long-term strategic plans. Ensuring that we have diversity of background, experiences and thought represented on the board remains critical to succeeding in a global market."
Neil A. Hansen
Vice president, investor relations and corporate secretary, Exxon Mobil Corporation
9
Board leadership
ExxonMobil's board affairs committee, supported by an independent executive search firm, looks for highly qualified, non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership, competency and a commitment to represent the interests of all shareholders. To help keep the process collaborative and inclusive, the board affairs committee considers recommendations from shareholders, directors and others on director candidates. At year-end 2017, 40 percent of the board's independent directors were female and/or an ethnic minority.
Sustainability topics are routinely reviewed at board meetings and typically fall under the purview of the public issues and contributions committee, the board affairs committee and the compensation committee. While risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board, committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant to each committee. For example, the public issues and contributions committee is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of the company's policies, programs and practices with respect to the environment, among other duties. The committee hears reports from operating units on environmental activities and also visits operating sites to observe and comment on current practices. The entire board receives briefings by internal experts on environmental stewardship and climate change.

Corporate governance
board decided to further enhance the company's disclosures consistent with the proposal and issued these disclosures in February 2018 in ExxonMobil's Energy and Carbon Summary and the Outlook for Energy. These enhancements include energy demand sensitivities, implications of 2 degree Celsius scenarios and positioning for a lower-carbon future.
Business conduct
Operating ethically and responsibly is ingrained in our business culture and is monitored, enforced and improved through our globally deployed Standards of Business Conduct. In 2017, nearly 18,000 employees and contractors participated in anti-corruption training.
ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask questions, voice concerns and report any suspected violations of company policies. In addition to our open-door communication procedures, ExxonMobil has several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including a 24-hour "hotline" phone number and a mailing address.

Shareholder relations
ExxonMobil values the dialogue we have with our shareholders -- and the insight provided -- throughout the year. The board has established procedures for shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with board members. In 2017, we held 68 shareholder engagements on environmental, social and governance issues with institutional investors, pension funds, labor, religious and nongovernmental organizations, representing an estimated 50 percent of outstanding stock held by institutional investors and about 30 percent of total shares outstanding. These engagements have frequently enabled us to reach common ground with our shareholders, in some cases avoiding the need for more formal shareholder proposals at the annual shareholders meeting.
Consistent with ExxonMobil's Corporate Governance Guidelines, the board of directors reconsidered a proposal requesting a report on impacts of climate change policies (Item 12) submitted by the New York State Common Retirement Fund, which received a majority of votes cast during the 2017 annual shareholders meeting. In reconsidering the proposal, the company sought input from a number of parties, such as the proponents and major shareholders. The

Bert Vos, a section head at the ExxonMobil Rotterdam refinery, provides an overview of facility operations to Chairman and CEO Darren Woods and board members Douglas Oberhelman and Susan Avery.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

10
Transparency
ExxonMobil's involvement with transparency initiatives is a natural extension of our commitment to ethical behavior. We appreciate the need for relevant public and private company government payment disclosures to confirm the values of total government revenues and to help citizens hold their governments accountable for the use of those revenues.
We believe the most successful transparency initiatives are those that apply to all foreign, domestic and state-owned companies, protect proprietary information to promote commercial competitiveness, comply with international trade conventions and treaties and do not violate host government laws or contractual obligations. We monitor and participate in transparency initiatives and we will continue to work with governments developing new reporting rules to support transparency objectives in countries where we operate.
Since its inception, we have been an active participant in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) -- a global organization that promotes the open and accountable management of oil, gas and mineral resources. We work with several governments that are EITI members, as well as others considering membership.

Corporate governance
political organizations as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada. In 2017, we contributed over $210,000 to state candidates and caucuses in 10 U.S. states. Corporate political contributions are subject to an internal review process that requires approval from the chairman.

Policy engagement
ExxonMobil engages with governments to provide information and insight on policies that can affect our business. In 2017, ExxonMobil reported lobbying expenses in the United States totaling $11.4 million in our public Lobby Disclosures Act filings. The board of directors has authorized ExxonMobil to make political contributions to candidate committees and other

In 2017, the public issues and contributions committee visited the ExxonMobil research and engineering laboratory facilities in Clinton, New Jersey. Front row from the left, board of directors Steven Reinemund, Susan Avery, Michael Boskin, Angela Braly and Henrietta Fore. Back row from the left, Robert Luettgen, manager of the office of the secretary, Vijay Swarup, vice president of research and development, Michael Dolan, senior vice president, Jeffrey Woodbury, vice president of investor relations and corporate secretary, and Bart Cahir, executive advisor to the chairman.

Explore more
Board engagement in ExxonMobil operations exxonmobil.com/boardengagement

ExxonMobil's position on key issues exxonmobil.com/policyengagement

2017 Proxy Statement exxonmobil.com/proxymaterials

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

11
Safety, health and the workplace
Above: Philip Ceary, a technical start-up lead, assessing equipment at the Antwerp refinery in Belgium. 2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

Safety is a core value at ExxonMobil. The health and safety policies set by ExxonMobil and adopted by our affiliates reflect our company's commitment to high operational standards and the well-being of our employees. We strive for an incident-free workplace and a culture that complies with our clear and simple objective: Nobody Gets Hurt. We build our culture of safety and health by attracting, developing and retaining individuals who share our commitment to operational excellence.
"In 2017 ExxonMobil achieved our lowest ever recordable injury rate as we continue working to eliminate all serious injuries. These improvements are supported by enhanced safety standards, strengthened safety leadership skills and human performance improvement programs. All of which are worked under our Operational Integrity Management System framework."
Jerry Wascom
Vice president, operational excellence, safety, security, health and environment, Exxon Mobil Corporation
12
Safety and health
ExxonMobil's commitment to operational excellence starts at the top, is driven throughout our businesses and is consistent everywhere we operate. Our global health and safety goal is zero injuries and illnesses.
Since 2000, we have reduced our workforce lost-time incident rate by more than 80 percent. While this number is declining, safety incidents do occur. We deeply regret that two contract workers were fatally injured in separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations in 2017. One incident occurred at an onshore drilling site and the other happened at a refinery during construction activities. We thoroughly investigated the causes and contributing factors associated with the incidents to prevent similar events in the future and to globally disseminate findings.
ExxonMobil's Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) establishes a framework for addressing risk across all aspects of our operations. OIMS, which is built around 11 key elements of risk, is embedded into everyday work processes in each of the following areas of safety at ExxonMobil:
Process safety: Process safety is about managing the integrity of our facilities by applying good design principles, engineering and operating practices. ExxonMobil incorporates rigorous safety standards and procedures in our facilities' design, construction and operating activities. We classify and track incidents by severity from Tier 1 through Tier 4, with Tier 1 referring to events of greater consequence. In 2017, we experienced 63 Tier 1 process safety events, which is approximately 1.6 percent lower than 2016.
Product stewardship: Product stewardship refers to a series of interconnected work processes for the safe and effective management of a product, focusing on the health, safety and environmental impacts at each phase of a product's lifecycle. We regularly use lifecycle assessments to consider impacts during the development, manufacturing, use and disposal of our products.
Product transportation: ExxonMobil implements rigorous safety and environmental standards while transporting our products, including by marine, pipeline and rail. We carefully maintain and monitor our infrastructure worldwide to identify and prevent corrosion, third-party damage or illegal intrusions onto our rights of way.
Emergency preparedness and response: We establish emergency support groups and incident management teams around the world to develop and practice emergency response

Safety, health and the workplace
strategies. In 2017, we conducted 37 drills, including in Guyana where we have discovered an estimated recoverable resource of over four billion oil equivalent barrels.
OIMS also establishes a framework for addressing risk across our supply chain. Contractors are an integral part of the ExxonMobil team; it is essential that they conduct work in accordance with our policies and business objectives. Since 2000, we have conducted safety leadership forums with contractors working on our major projects. This promotes a strong safety partnership with contract workers to improve our safety performance and positively influence the industry.
The success of ExxonMobil's operations depends on a healthy and competent workforce. We have corporate-wide expectations for identifying, evaluating and managing health risks related to our operations that can potentially affect our employees, contractors or the public.
In each country, we develop workplace health programs that take into consideration local health care systems, health needs and available resources. ExxonMobil's U.S.-based Culture of Health

Lost-time incident rate*
Incidents per 200,000 work hours
0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

0

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

ExxonMobil workforce

U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark

In 2017, our workforce lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.029, consistent with the previous year. Since 2000, we have reduced this rate by 80 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to outperform industry peers in safety performance.
*Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information available at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors. Depending on the reporting year, around 2 to 13 percent of the incidents are illness-related.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

13
program supports the well-being of our employees and reduces health plan costs. We continue to look for new opportunities to expand the reach of our Culture of Health program. In 2017, we expanded the program to our affiliates in Brazil and Mexico.
Workforce engagement
We value the exceptional qualities and diverse perspectives of our employees and strive to promote the inclusion of thought, skill, knowledge and culture across our operations. As demand for workers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics continues to increase, we support immigration policies that will help U.S. companies fill their needs for highly skilled workers.
We support voluntary, employee-led networks that foster a culture of diversity and inclusion by offering development programs, community service opportunities and mentoring. Our local employee resource groups include:
 Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE)  Black Employee Success Team (BEST)  Global Organization for the Advancement of Latinos (GOAL)  Organization for New Employees (ONE)  People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity of Employees (PRIDE)  Veteran Advocacy and Support Team (VAST)  Women's Interest Network (WIN)
We strive to foster innovation and progress across our operations by helping our employees reach their full potential. We offer robust corporate and technical training programs and encourage employee engagement through a variety of channels, including mentorship programs and networking opportunities. In 2017, more than 4,500 employees at various levels of the company participated in ExxonMobil's leadership development training programs, of which 34 percent were women and 54 percent were employees from outside the United States.
Our Global Diversity Framework and Standards of Business Conduct govern all aspects of our employment and support our commitment to provide equal employment opportunities, prohibit harassment and discrimination in the workplace and align with applicable laws and regulations in the countries where we operate.

2017 female and minority career development
Worldwide females

59%
12% since 2010

Campus new hires for professional positions

Safety, health and the workplace
U.S. minorities
31%
41% since 2010

34%

Leadership training participation*

26%

31%
17% since 2010
20%
43% since 2010

Senior leadership potential
Executive population

22%
18% since 2010
16%
58% since 2010

We consider diversity through all stages of the employment relationship, including recruitment, training and development of our future leaders.
*The number of leadership training courses and participation varies by year.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

14
We send an annual letter to senior managers emphasizing their responsibility to maintain work environments free from harassment and discrimination. ExxonMobil employs a series of webbased trainings and tools to help our employees understand cultural sensitivities across a diverse workforce. Every employee is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, for any act of harassment.

Safety, health and the workplace

Derrek Lathon, marine dock supervisor, communicating equipment observations with his team at the ExxonMobil Baton Rouge refinery.

Explore more
Drones enhance safety inspections across the company exxonmobil.com/dronesafetyinspection
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

Working toward continuous improvement of process safety
exxonmobil.com/safetyimprovement

Emergency preparedness and response in Guyana
exxonmobil.com/ guyanaemergencypreparedness

ExxonMobil's Houston campus reaches sustainability milestone exxonmobil.com/ houstoncampussustainability
15
Managing the risks of climate change

We are committed to providing affordable energy to empower human progress and improve standards of living while advancing effective solutions to address climate change. ExxonMobil believes the risks of climate change warrant action.
Our climate change risk management strategy consists of four pillars: mitigating emissions in our operations, developing scalable technology solutions, providing customer solutions that reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and engaging on climate change policy.

Above: Sona Joseph, a research analyst, running computer models at the Upstream Research Company lab in Spring, Texas.
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

"Climate change is a complex issue requiring global participation and solutions. In my role, I apply my technical, operational and regulatory background to evaluate strategies and partnerships to progress new solutions, an important factor in improving our emissions performance."
Sufang Zhao
Environmental policy and planning analyst, Exxon Mobil Corporation
16
Mitigating emissions from our operations
We are working to increase energy efficiency and reduce flaring, venting and other emissions in our operations. We expect our greenhouse gas reduction measures to lead to a 15 percent decrease in methane emissions and a 25 percent reduction in flaring by 2020. We also expect to further improve our industry-leading efficiency in refining and chemical manufacturing facilities.
In 2017, ExxonMobil and our subsidiary XTO Energy established a methane management program that exceeds applicable regulations. The program prioritizes actions at the highestvolume production and midstream sites and includes efforts to develop and deploy new, more efficient technologies to detect and reduce facility emissions.
Along with several industry peers, we issued Guiding Principles, which provide a framework for continually reducing methane emissions, improving accuracy of methane emissions data and advocating sound policies and regulations.
Other ways we are reducing emissions include deploying proven technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and storage. Longer term, we are conducting and supporting research to further develop breakthrough technologies. For information on how ExxonMobil manages the business risks of climate change, including energy demand sensitivities, implications of 2 degree Celsius scenarios and positioning for a lower-carbon future, please see ExxonMobil's Energy and Carbon Summary.
Developing technology solutions
Technological advancements will be instrumental to meet rising global energy demand while also lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We are conducting scientific research to enhance existing and develop next-generation energy sources. ExxonMobil has spent more than $9 billion on lower-emission energy solutions since 2000.
At the center of our research is ExxonMobil's Corporate Strategic Research laboratory, a fundamental research institution with approximately 170 PhD scientists and engineers focused on addressing the company's long-range science needs. We support a diverse portfolio of in-house research projects, including next-generation biofuels, carbon capture and storage, alternative energy and climate science. ExxonMobil is partnering with approximately 80 universities around the world to explore new energy technologies.

Managing the risks of climate change

Greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions*
Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions Millions of metric tons

160 140 120 100
80 60 40 20
0 2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Actual

Avoided

*In 2017, greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions were 23.4 million metric tons. Since 2008, we have avoided 168 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions as a result of ExxonMobil actions. Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in American Petroleum Institute's Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry and IPIECA's Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We report greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for our business operations, demonstrating a share of emissions from any facility or operation in which ExxonMobil holds a financial interest, with the share reflecting the equity interest.

In carbon capture, we are conducting research to find ways to improve existing technologies. One project, with FuelCell Energy, is focused on reducing the cost of capturing carbon by using carbonate fuel cells that generate power while capturing carbon. We are identifying potential locations for pilot testing.
ExxonMobil has extensive experience in carbon capture and has a working interest in more than one-fifth of the world's total carbon capture and storage capacity. In 2017, we captured approximately 6.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide for storage.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

17
We are also conducting extensive research on biofuels. In 2017, ExxonMobil and Synthetic Genomics, Inc. announced breakthrough research involving a modified algae strain that more than doubled its oil content without significantly inhibiting growth, a key challenge along the path to commercial scalability. We recently announced a new research phase of this project that could lead to the production of 10,000 barrels of algae biofuel per day by 2025. The new phase of research includes an outdoor field study that will grow naturally occurring algae in several ponds in California.
Emissions reduction
> $9B
invested to develop loweremission energy solutions
since 2000

> $4 Billion
invested since 2000 at our Upstream facilities around the world on emission reduction efforts, including energy efficiency and flare mitigation

> $2 Billion
invested since 2000 in our refining and chemical facilities and enabling research around the world to reduce greenhouse gas emissions

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

> $3 Billion
in support of Upstream, Downstream and Chemical cogeneration facilities since 2001 to more efficiently produce electricity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions

Managing the risks of climate change
Providing solutions for customers
In addition to developing and deploying technologies to reduce emissions from our own operations, we are working to help our customers reduce their emissions. Our goal is to develop solutions that are economically competitive and affordable, including:
Expanding the supply of cleaner-burning natural gas to reduce emissions in power generation: The use of natural gas in power generation represents one of the greatest opportunities for society to reduce emissions and transition to a lower greenhouse gasintensive energy system. ExxonMobil is one of the largest natural gas producers in the world and is a leader in liquefied natural gas technology.
Creating lightweight plastics and other materials for a range of consumer products: ExxonMobil's next-generation plastic packaging reduces total product weight and enables more products per shipment, fewer trucks on the road, less fuel and energy used, fewer greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately less material to be reused, recovered or recycled. For example, for every 10 percent drop in vehicle weight, fuel economy improves by an estimated 7 percent. We recognize plastic waste is an issue for societies, and ExxonMobil is engaged with diverse industries in helping to identify solutions.
Developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants: Our family of high-performance lubricants includes synthetic lubricants like Mobil 1TM Annual Protection that need to be replaced less frequently than conventional motor oils, therefore reducing the volume of used oil for disposal or recycling. Our lubricants and greases are also used in more than 40,000 wind turbines worldwide.
Engaging on climate change policy
Climate change is a global issue that requires the collaboration of governments, companies, consumers and other stakeholders. We engage a variety of stakeholders on climate change issues -- including policymakers, investors, consumers, nongovernmental organizations, academics and the public -- to advocate for responsible policies that would be effective in addressing the risks of climate change.
ExxonMobil supports the Paris Agreement as an important framework for addressing the risks of climate change. We welcomed the Paris Agreement when it was announced in December 2015, and again when it came into effect in November 2016. We have reiterated our support to government officials, nongovernmental organizations and the broader public.
18
Managing the risks of climate change

Free markets, innovation and technology are essential in addressing the risks of climate change. Success in developing and deploying technologies will be highly dependent on governments creating a policy environment that enables innovation and competition. Policies should be clear and guard against duplicative, overlapping and conflicting regulations, which may distort markets and impose unnecessary costs on consumers. We believe an effective policy response to climate change requires a thorough understanding of the climate system. Our scientists have been involved in climate change research and related policy analysis for more than 35 years, resulting in hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related topics, including more than 50 peer-reviewed publications.
We believe that effective policies are those that:
 Promote global participation;  Let market prices drive the selection of solutions;  Ensure a uniform and predictable cost of greenhouse gas emissions across the economy;  Minimize complexity and administrative costs;  Maximize transparency; and  Provide flexibility to react to developments in technology, climate science and policy.
ExxonMobil is a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council. The Council was created by former U.S. Secretaries of State George P. Shultz and James A. Baker, III to advocate for a carbon tax that would implement a gradually increasing price on carbon. The revenues generated by the plan would be returned to American energy consumers. In 2018, we joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a voluntary initiative representing 13 of the world's largest oil and gas producers working collaboratively toward solutions to mitigate the risks of climate change.

Climate risk oversight
ExxonMobil's board of directors is responsible for risk oversight, including the risks of climate change. The board routinely reviews and considers these risks, including briefings on public policy, scientific and technical research, as well as company and external positions and actions in this area. Climate-related matters are also considered by the board throughout the year in various other contexts, including reviews of the Outlook for Energy, the company's safety, health and environmental performance, the annual corporate planning process, shareholder proposals and regulatory filings such as the 10-K.
Synthetic Genomics, Inc. and ExxonMobil are working together to turn algae into a low-emission transportation fuel.

Explore more
2018 ExxonMobil Energy and Carbon Summary exxonmobil.com/ecsummary

Partnering with Singapore universities to innovate lower-emission technologies
exxonmobil.com/singaporeuniversities

Taking action to manage methane emissions
exxonmobil.com/ managemethaneemissions

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

19
Environmental performance
Above: ExxonMobil is working to help protect the Scheepmaker's Crowned Pigeon, a threatened species native to Papua New Guinea. 2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

Our diverse portfolio of projects requires us to work in remote and sensitive environments including Arctic, deepwater and biodiverse locations. ExxonMobil considers a full range of potential environmental and social risks associated with the lifecycle of our operations and products. In doing so, we gain a holistic understanding of our impacts from initial exploration activities to decommissioning.
"ExxonMobil is committed to excellence in environmental performance. It takes every single one of us, every day. It's simply how we work."
Kylie Bishop
Environmental engineer, ExxonMobil Chemical Scotland 20
Managing environmental performance
We comply with all applicable regulatory requirements and, where there are none on a particular issue, we follow relevant risk-based standards that protect the environment. Our facilities are designed, operated and managed with the goal of mitigating adverse environmental impacts. Our management approach is guided by an in-depth scientific understanding of the environmental impacts of our operations and a commitment to develop, maintain and operate projects and decommission assets using appropriate standards. We work to continually improve our performance and look to new and existing technologies to enhance our operations.
In 2017, we maintained strong performance across our key environmental focus areas:
Biodiversity
In 2017, ExxonMobil contributed approximately $3 million to organizations focused on biodiversity protection and land conservation. To protect particular species and sensitive habitats, we take steps such as modifying engineering design and enhancing wildlife habitats at our properties.
Water management
Our net freshwater consumption at our operations was 300 million cubic meters in 2017. This represents about a 20 percent decline since 2011, in part due to the development and implementation of local water management strategies.
In our Upstream onshore operations, water consumption is primarily associated with hydraulic fracturing, which uses water pressure to create small cracks or fissures in rocks deep underground so that oil or natural gas can flow to the well. The industry has more than 60 years of experience with the technique.
We continuously work to improve our understanding of our water consumption, including when, where and how much. Using the latest version of a water tool developed by IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, we identified that almost 37 percent of our major operating sites are in areas with the potential for water scarcity. Therefore, we pursue site-specific management strategies such as the deployment of water conservation technologies, the use of alternative water sources, recycling of municipal and industrial wastewater, substitution with lower-quality water sources and harvesting of rainwater.

Environmental management process

Environmental performance

Identify
Environmental and social aspects

+ Evaluate
Environmental, social and regulatory settings

Conduct
Environmental and social risk assessment

Apply
Environmental and social aspects

Monitor & Evaluate

Manage risks Avoid, reduce, remedy

Spill performance and prevention
ExxonMobil is committed to the prevention and elimination of spills from our operations. We have the industry's only dedicated, in-house oil spill response research program. If a spill does occur, we ensure a rapid, comprehensive response to minimize impact on communities and the environment.
We reported our best-ever performance for number of spills in 2017. We had 7 percent fewer than 2016. Since 2011, ExxonMobil has reduced the absolute number of spills greater than 1 barrel by more than 55 percent across our global operations. The total volume of hydrocarbons spilled on soil and water was 6,900 barrels in 2017, and more than 65 percent was recovered at the spill sites. The majority of these spills did not affect third parties or nearby communities.
Air emissions
ExxonMobil is committed to doing our part to contribute to cleaner air in the communities where we operate. Our combined emissions of volatile organic compounds, sulfur dioxide

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

21
and nitrogen oxides have decreased by almost 31 percent over the past 10 years across all our businesses. New air measurement technologies are making it easier to monitor ambient air at our Downstream facilities in the United States and Canada. Data collected around the perimeter of our facilities is publicly available to local communities.
Decommissioning and rehabilitation
We are committed to sustainably managing our surplus properties. In 2017, ExxonMobil Environmental Services monitored about 4,000 active remediation sites in more than 30 countries.
A significant number of our Upstream locations are located offshore. To effectively manage offshore operations, we use a systematic decommissioning process that varies depending on the type of structure and unique characteristics of a specific site. ExxonMobil created an offshore decommissioning center of expertise in 2015 that is responsible for planning and managing the safe decommissioning of our assets.
Seismicity
ExxonMobil has a comprehensive risk management approach in place to limit induced seismicity from our operations by evaluating the relative risks associated with the specific geological and geographic context of a site.
We work with academic and government researchers and regulatory agencies to share our knowledge and advanced approaches. For example, ExxonMobil and Stanford University jointly developed a software modeling tool to assess the potential risk of induced seismicity and made it freely available to government and industry. The tool is being used by regulatory agencies and energy companies to help reduce the risk of human-induced seismicity.

Environmental performance
Karen Power, a production engineer, in front of ExxonMobil's Hebron offshore platform off the coast of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.

Explore more
Protecting the endangered western gray whale exxonmobil.com/westerngraywhale

Reducing nitrate flow to the Mississippi River
exxonmobil.com/nitrateflowmississippi

Decommissioning the Sable offshore energy project
exxonmobil.com/sableoffshoreenergyproject

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

22
Community engagement and human rights

ExxonMobil works in communities all over the world, each with its own unique cultures, needs and sensitivities. Identifying and mitigating potential negative social impacts is integral to developing long-term, positive relationships with these communities. At ExxonMobil, we aim to promote and respect human rights in all areas where we work.

Above: In 2017, ExxonMobil partnered with the Youth Empowerment and Development Initiative to organize community events to raise awareness about malaria in Lagos, Nigeria as part of World Malaria Day.
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

"In Angola, our key initiatives in women's empowerment and malaria support the priorities of the government and local communities. Through strategic partnerships, a shared responsibility to sustainability and an aligned vision, we have a positive impact on communities where we operate."
Fernando Pegado
Public and government affairs manager, ExxonMobil Angola
23
Community relations
Understanding and addressing the interests of communities where we operate is critical to maintaining a sustainable business. We engage with local communities through a variety of communication channels -- including open houses, community discussions and individual meetings -- to provide opportunities for dialogue with interested stakeholders. ExxonMobil creates grievance reporting mechanisms that provide opportunities for local citizens and communities to raise concerns.
Respecting human rights
We believe our business presence can and should have a positive influence on the people in the communities in which we operate. ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights as a fundamental principle in our operations, implemented through training and the application of our internal policies and practices. The company's practices and operations reflect the spirit and intent of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
In 2017, ExxonMobil's supplier, vendor and contractor expectations became part of an annual letter we send to our suppliers. These expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We participate in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, an initiative that provides guidance to extractive companies on human rights risk assessments relating to the safeguarding of company operations or facilities. Engaging and training host government and private security on the Voluntary Principles is key to reducing human rights risks in certain communities. In 2017, more than 5,000 host government security and ExxonMobil-contracted security personnel were trained on the Voluntary Principles across 12 higher-risk countries.

Community engagement and human rights
Investing in our communities
ExxonMobil collaborates with governments and other stakeholders to invest in community development programs where we operate. We work with local stakeholders to ensure that our efforts are tailored to address community and business needs, such as access to skills training and health care, support for disaster relief, education initiatives and economic development. In 2017, we contributed $204 million to communities around the world.
The ExxonMobil Foundation collaborated with Mercy Corps, Technoserve and the Center for Global Development to measure the effect of mobile banking in empowering women economically.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

24
2017 community investments
ExxonMobil provides investments to benefit many communities around the world.
By focus area*

By geographic region*

Community engagement and human rights

$204M
Worldwide total

$62M Civic and community $43M Employee and retiree giving $42M Higher education $17M Health and environment $15M Pre-college education $8M Women $6M Public policy research $5M United appeals and workplace giving $3M Other education $3M Arts and culture

*Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil's matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. Investments do not include environmental capital and operating expenditures.

$125M
United States

$9M
Canada

$4M
Latin America

$25M
Africa and Middle East

$13M
Asia Pacific

$28M
Europe and Caspian

Explore more
Managing community grievances in Indonesia exxonmobil.com/ indonesiacommunitygrievances
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

Empowering women through access to mobile savings
exxonmobil.com/ empoweringwomenmobilesavings

Supporting the Educate A Child initiative exxonmobil.com/educateachild

Helping communities combat malaria exxonmobil.com/combatmalaria

25
Local development and supply chain management

Local content -- the added economic and social value created by direct and indirect employment of local people through activities of the oil and gas industry -- provides value to ExxonMobil and to communities. We aim to develop mutually beneficial relationships with local businesses throughout our supply chain.

Above: A construction site team in Indonesia. 2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

"It is critical that ExxonMobil be a valued contributor to the Guyanese economy and trusted member of the community. Helping establish ExxonMobil as a responsible partner and supporting capacity building of Guyanese suppliers for decades to come are important priorities as we continue our work."
Rod Henson
Lead country manager, Exxon Mobil Guyana
26
Local development
A successful local development program requires a long-term perspective with clearly defined and consistently applied management processes. Our approach focuses on three key areas: employing and training a local workforce, supporting local suppliers and improving livelihoods of community members through local community investments.
We provide locally hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers with ExxonMobil, and with future employers. With about 60 percent of our employees located outside the United States, local hiring ensures that our workforce remains culturally diverse and representative of the countries where we operate. As illustrated to the right, we continued to make progress in local hiring and training in 2017.
Supply chain management
We work to source goods from local suppliers. In 2017, ExxonMobil made payments to more than 100,000 suppliers of goods and services worldwide.
We have developed a set of best practices to help ensure our company consistently engages with local and diverse suppliers. These practices include supplier forums, local supplier databases and local enterprise centers for business development and training. For example, we have established a Centre for Local Business Development and supplier registration portal to support identification and training of Guyanese suppliers for our new development in Guyana. A similar example, in Papua New Guinea, has supported nearly 19,000 local entrepreneurs.
In addition, we cultivate long-lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with diverse suppliers to contribute to the economic development of historically underrepresented groups. In 2017, we exceeded our target with a total of $1.9 billion in spending with diverse suppliers in the United States.
Our supplier diversity program continues to expand internationally. In 2017, we spent $186 million with women-owned and indigenous-owned businesses outside the United States. We continue to work with the nonprofit WEConnect International, a global network that connects women-owned businesses to qualified buyers, to increase the participation of women-owned businesses in our supply chain. In addition to compiling an international database of women-owned businesses used by ExxonMobil, WEConnect identifies, educates

Local development and supply chain management

2017 local hiring statistics

Personnel locally hired

Personnel locally hired in supervisory or managerial positions

Angola Chad* Equatorial Guinea Indonesia Nigeria

86%
6% since 2013
95%
1% since 2014
76%
6% since 2013
95%
5% since 2013
95%
4% since 2013

64%
50% since 2013
87%
25% since 2014
39%
26% since 2013
89%
14% since 2013
90%
69% since 2013

*Historic data since 2013 is not available for Chad. ExxonMobil began tracking local hiring in this country in 2014.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

27
Local development and supply chain management

and certifies women's business enterprises based outside of the United States that are at least 51 percent owned, managed and controlled by one or more women. In 2017, WEConnect International named ExxonMobil its Corporation of the Year in recognition of the company's diverse supplier program.
ExxonMobil's vendors must agree to meet our robust safety, technical, environmental and human rights expectations and requirements. For existing agreements, a select number of suppliers are audited each year for contract compliance. Audit components include pricing, safety, and drug and alcohol policy compliance. A contractor who does not meet our expectations may be subject to supplemental training and contractual remedies, including termination.

ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers*
Millions of dollars

2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

$615

$887 $841
$1,068 $1,001 $1,024
$1,108 $1,064

$1,442

$1,902

In 2017, we spent a total of $1.9 billion with diverse suppliers in the United States, an increase of more than 30 percent from 2016.
*Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending). Total spending includes suppliers classified as minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities.

Explore more
ExxonMobil begins production on new polyethylene line at Mont Belvieu plastics plant exxonmobil.com/montbelvieuplasticsplant

Promoting sustainability throughout our supply chain
exxonmobil.com/sustainabilitysupplychain

ExxonMobil supplier, vendor and contractor expectations
exxonmobil.com/ suppliervendorcontractorexpectations

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

28
Case study: ExxonMobil's response to Hurricane Harvey

On August 25, 2017, Hurricane Harvey made landfall in Texas as a Category 4 storm, bringing destructive winds and flooding to the Gulf Coast. The storm caused an estimated $125 billion in damages, and rebuilding efforts continue. ExxonMobil acted swiftly to ensure the safety of our employees and support affected communities.

Supporting our communities and our people
We started our response to Hurricane Harvey before it even arrived -- by making a financial contribution to community disaster relief efforts and by beginning to safely shut down our operations and make plans to bring in fuel from unaffected locations to aid in response and recovery.
At our Baytown and Beaumont refineries, we worked to minimize environmental impacts from our operations that were caused by the storm and resulting power loss, and reported impacts to appropriate authorities.
We helped our employees -- many of whom spent day and night on the job to help safely shut down and then quickly restart our operations -- clean up and repair their own homes, when they were flooded by the storm.
In the days and weeks following the storm, ExxonMobil contributed more than $7 million to assist with recovery efforts, and provided supplies and volunteers to assist with community recovery.
For example, our employees helped the city of Beaumont restore its municipal water system, when Harvey left more than 100,000 people without running water. And we transported more

than 60,000 pounds of cargo via helicopter to stranded personnel and community members throughout the area. As rebuilding along the Gulf Coast continues, we are thankful for the incredible dedication of our employees and the resilience of our neighbors and the communities we serve.
Emergency response operations
The ability to respond promptly during a disaster -- regardless of where it strikes -- is critical. ExxonMobil conducts extensive training and drills to prepare for such situations. We design our facilities to withstand a variety of extreme conditions. Regardless of the size, severity or cause of an event, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to trained responders and resources. We practice emergency response strategies and routinely test our emergency response teams in accordance with regulatory requirements and our own Operations Integrity Management System.
Above: Relief supplies for Hurricane Harvey victims being loaded into a helicopter by ExxonMobil employees in Texas.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

29
About the Sustainability Report Highlights
The Highlights summarize ExxonMobil's approach to managing our operations, and explains the measures we employ to operate in a variety of environments. It describes how we address the dual challenge of meeting the world's demand for energy while managing the risks of climate change. For more information on ExxonMobil's efforts to manage performance across our six focus areas of sustainability, visit our full online 2017 Sustainability Report. We developed this year's Sustainability Report in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues), the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers and the American Petroleum Institute. Note that many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees.
ExxonMobil corporate responsibility recognition
ExxonMobil was ranked in the top 50 of Corporate Responsibility Magazine's Best Corporate Citizens in both 2017 and 2018 in recognition of the company's commitment to corporate responsibility and sustainability. The ranking is based on publicly available records from company websites, annual reports, shareholder calls, media interviews, NGOs and government documents. The analysis includes 260 data points on environmental performance, climate change, human rights, employee relations, corporate governance, philanthropy and financial performance.
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

2017 material issues
Since 2006, ExxonMobil has conducted an annual materiality assessment to identify the issues that, in the view of the company's management and its external stakeholders, have the potential to significantly affect sustainability performance. For this 2017 Sustainability Report, we evaluated key metrics within the sustainability issues for our business and stakeholders using a review of IPIECA reporting guidance, feedback from external stakeholders, sessions with ExxonMobil business support representatives, a benchmark of peer company reports and a media review.

Safety, health and the workplace
 Emergency preparedness and response  Employee benefits and practices  Personnel and process safety  Product safety and responsibility  Product transportation safety  Workforce engagement  Workplace security  Worksite health and wellness
Managing the risks of climate change
 Developing technology solutions  Engaging on climate change policy  Mitigating emissions  Providing solutions for customers
Environmental performance
 Air emissions  Biodiversity and ecosystem services  Decommissioning and rehabilitation of
the environment
 Environmental compliance  Environmental management approach  Spill performance  Water management

Community engagement and human rights
 Community relations  External stakeholder engagement  Human rights  Indigenous peoples
Local development and supply chain management
 Local economic growth and
development
 Supply chain management
Corporate governance
 Board leadership  Ethics and integrity  Executive compensation and strategic
advantage
 Political advocacy and contributions  Shareholder relations  Transparency
Business operations (included throughout report)
 Energy future and portfolio
management
 Management systems  Operating in sensitive environments

30
Performance data
We assess our performance at many levels of the organization, from individual operational sites to the business lines, to support continual improvement in all areas of sustainability. Starting in 2011, performance data include XTO Energy information. As part of our commitment to transparently communicate our performance, in 2014 we started reporting our data over a 10-year period to demonstrate performance trends over time. Data included in the performance table is guided by the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA's Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015).

For additional information on our sustainability reporting, please see the IPIECA/GRI/SDG index.

Performance data table
Safety, health and the workplace*
Fatalities -- employees Fatalities -- contractors 1 Fatal accident rate -- total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours) Fatal incident rate -- total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours) 2 Lost-time incident rate -- employees (per 200,000 work hours) 2 Lost-time incident rate -- contractors (per 200,000 work hours) 2 Lost-time incident rate -- total workforce (per 200,000 work hours) 2 Total recordable incident rate -- employees (per 200,000 work hours) 2 Total recordable incident rate -- contractors (per 200,000 work hours) 2 Total recordable incident rate -- total workforce (per 200,000 work hours) Process Safety Tier 1 Events (API RP 754 guidance) 3,4 Number of regular employees at year end, thousands 4 Percent of workforce -- outside the United States 4 Percent women -- global workforce Percent management and professional new hires -- women (campus and experienced) Percent management and professional new hires -- outside the United States (campus and experienced) Number of non-unique employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

0 5 0.011 0.011 0.054 0.049 0.051 0.37 0.49 0.43 N/A 80 63 25 39 69 48 69

4 4 0.017 0.012 0.043 0.040 0.041 0.32 0.39 0.36 69 81 63 26 38 63 52 71

0 3 0.006 0.006 0.048 0.031 0.038 0.25 0.34 0.30 62 84 60 26 40 70 61 77

0 9 0.017 0.017 0.064 0.086 0.077 0.30 0.41 0.37 70 82 61 26 44 79 65 80

1 4 0.010 0.010 0.043 0.050 0.047 0.25 0.37 0.33 63 77 59 28 39 68 76 88

0 6 0.011 0.009 0.051 0.041 0.044 0.22 0.32 0.29 62 75 59 28 39 66 87 96

0 3 0.006 0.006 0.032 0.030 0.031 0.19 0.29 0.26 65 75 58 28 40 61 79 117

0 2 0.004 0.004 0.044 0.029 0.035 0.21 0.26 0.24 74 73 59 28 41 61 85 124

0 3 0.008 0.008 0.027 0.030 0.029 0.16 0.23 0.20 64 71 59 28 44 74 83 108

0 2 0.005 0.005 0.034 0.026 0.029 0.14 0.22 0.19 63 70 60 28 41 67 98 94

31
Managing the risks of climate change*
5 Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons 6 Direct (excluding emissions from exported power and heat) 7 Emissions associated with imported power CO2 (excluding emissions from exported power and heat) Methane (CO2-equivalent) Other gases (CO2-equivalent) Emissions from exported power and heat
By-region greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons Africa/Europe/Middle East Americas Asia Pacific
By-division greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons Upstream Downstream Chemical
5 Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production
Upstream Downstream Chemical Energy use (billion gigajoules) Upstream (gigajoules per metric tons production) Refining (gigajoules per metric tons throughput) Chemical (gigajoules per metric tons product) Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of metric tons 8 Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts

Performance data

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

126

123

126

128

126

127

123

122

123

122

117

114

117

119

118

119

115

114

115

114

9

9

9

9

8

8

8

8

8

8

122

119

122

124

120

119

116

115

116

115

3

3

3

3

5

7

6

6

7

7

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

<1

<1

13

14

13

15

15

16

7

4

3

3

45

43

45

45

44

44

43

44

44

43

62

62

64

66

68

70

66

65

63

63

19

18

17

17

14

13

14

13

16

16

49

47

50

54

56

58

56

56

57

58

57

56

55

54

51

49

47

45

45

43

20

20

21

20

19

20

20

21

21

21

21.0

20.1

20.5

20.7

22.3

23.2

23.9

23.9

24.3

24.6

21.0

21.0

20.8

20.0

19.6

19.7

19.2

18.9

19.5

18.6

59.8

60.7

57.9

57.2

56.3

57.0

53.4

53.6

52.2

53.3

1.5

1.5

1.5

1.5

1.5

1.4

1.4

1.5

1.5

1.5

1.7

1.9

2.0

2.0

2.0

2.1

2.3

2.4

2.4

2.5

3.0

3.0

3.0

3.0

3.0

3.0

2.9

2.9

3.0

2.9

10.1

9.8

9.5

11.4

12.0

10.9

10.7

10.9

10.6

10.5

5.7

4.4

3.6

4.0

3.5

3.7

4.5

5.3

5.0

3.8

4.6

4.9

4.9

5.0

5.2

5.3

5.5

5.5

5.3

5.4

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

32
Environmental performance*
8 Number of acres of managed wildlife habitat Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production
Upstream Downstream Chemical Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel Spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels Other spills, thousands of barrels Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons Upstream Downstream Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars Total dollars spent on environmental penalties, fines and settlements, billions of dollars Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons 9 Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons
Community engagement and human rights
10 Community investments, millions of dollars United States Rest of world
2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

Performance data

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

370

380

6,400

6,900

7,000

7,000

7,200

7,100

7,200

7,200

N/A

N/A

N/A

540

520

420

420

450

440

450

350

340

330

370

330

280

270

300

290

300

0.1 0.9 2.6 0 211 20.3 0.4 1.8 1.3 0.5 0.19 0.15 0.20 5.2 0.011 0.2 0.4

0.1 0.9 2.5 0 242 17.4 0.5 1.4 1.1 0.3 0.16 0.13 0.18 5.1 0.002 1.2 0.8

0.1 0.9 2.4 0 210 7.7 40.4 1.3 1.1 0.2 0.14 0.12 0.18 4.5 0.011 0.6 1.3

0.3 0.9 2.6 0 484 17.8 2.0 1.3 1.1 0.2 0.13 0.15 0.18 4.9 0.003 1.3 1.9

0.3 0.8 2.4 0 356 8.5 1.6 1.2 1.0 0.2 0.13 0.14 0.15 5.5 0.004 1.7 2.0

0.2 0.7 2.0 0 331 9.3 0.9 1.1 1.0 0.1 0.12 0.14 0.15 6.0 0.002 1.1 0.3

0.2 0.7 1.8 0 334 9.1 4.1 1.3 1.2 0.1 0.10 0.14 0.16 6.2 0.018 1.0 0.3

0.4 0.7 1.8 0 319 10.8 0.4 1.1 1.0 0.1 0.11 0.14 0.16 5.7 0.015 1.4 0.2

0.3 0.8 1.7 0 220 4.7 3.7 1.1 1.0 0.1 0.11 0.13 0.15 4.9 0.006 1.4 0.1

0.4 0.8 1.7 0 205 6.9 1.8 1.7 1.6 0.1 0.10 0.13 0.14 4.7 0.001 1.5 0.2

225.2 144.6 80.6

235.0 143.0 92.0

237.1 154.8 82.3

278.4 161.3 117.1

255.6 156.5 99.1

269.5 156.3 113.2

279.5 150.2 129.3

272.3 145.5 126.8

241.5 131.1 110.4

204.0 125.3 76.7

33
Local development and supply chain management 11 ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers, millions of dollars
Corporate governance 12 Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries Percent of shares represented at Corporation's Annual Meeting Corporate political contributions -- U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars

Performance data

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

615

887

841

1,068

1,001

1,024

1,108

1,064

1,442

1,902

8

8

7

7

7

9

10

11

15

18

84.8

82.9

80.7

81.9

83.0

82.3

82.9

83.9

85.1

85.7

0.45

0.49

1.10

0.51

1.03

0.70

1.17

0.58

0.52

0.51

Notes on performance table:
1 Workforce includes employees and contractors. Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses. From 2008 through 2017 all fatalities were injury-related.
2 Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors.
3 Reduction from 2011 primarily due to divestment and restructuring activity in the Downstream business.
4 Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil's benefit plans and programs. Employees at our company-operated retail stores are not included.
5 The net equity greenhouse gas emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity greenhouse gas metric. Information has been restated back to 2005 according to the new metric. The net equity greenhouse gas metric includes direct and imported greenhouse gas emissions and excludes emissions from exports (including Hong Kong Power through mid-2014). ExxonMobil reports greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for all our business operations, reflecting our percent ownership in an asset.
6 The addition of direct emissions and emissions associated with exported power and heat is equivalent to World Resources Institute (WRI) Scope 1.
7 These emissions are equivalent to WRI Scope 2.

8 Cumulative figure.
9 The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one local authority, which is approximately 70 to 95 percent of the reported figure in 2008-2012.
10 Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil's matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs.
11 Beginning in 2015, our spending encompassed an expanded set of diverse classifications that includes: minorityowned businesses, women-owned businesses, small business-owned, lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses, veteran-owned businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned businesses and businesses owned by peoples with disabilities. Prior to 2014, spending included minority- and women-owned businesses.
12 In countries where ExxonMobil has an Upstream business presence.
* Some uncertainty exists in performance data, depending on measurement methods. Data in the report and performance data table represent best available information at the time of publication. Performance data are reported for our affiliates and those operations under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. Includes XTO Energy performance beginning in 2011. N/A is used to indicate that data are not available.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

34
Explore our complete 2017 Sustainability Report at exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport
On the cover ExxonMobil scientist Kelsey McNeely researching algae strains.
Exxon Mobil Corporation Corporate Headquarters 5959 Las Colinas Blvd. Irving, Texas 75039-2298 exxonmobil.com

